.TH REDO-ALWAYS 1 2020-03-12 "Redo 0.11-119-g209cead" "User Commands"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
redo-always - mark the current target as always needing to be rebuilt
.SH SYNOPSIS
redo-always
.SH DESCRIPTION
Normally redo-always is run from a .do file that has been
executed by \fBredo\fR(1). See \fBredo\fR(1) for more details.
.PP
redo-always takes no parameters. It simply adds an
"impossible" dependency to the current target, which
ensures that the target will always be rebuilt if anyone
runs \fBredo-ifchange targetname\fR.
.PP
Because of the way redo works, \fBredo-ifchange targetname\fR
will only rebuild \fBtargetname\fR once per session. So if
multiple targets depend on \fItargetname\fR and \fItargetname\fR
has called redo-always, only the first target will cause it
to be rebuilt. If the build cycle completes and a new one
begins, it will be rebuilt exactly one more time.
.PP
Normally, any target that depends (directly or indirectly)
on a sub-target that has called redo-always will also
always need to rebuild, since one of its dependencies will
always be out of date. To avoid this problem, redo-always is
usually used along with \fBredo-stamp\fR(1).
.SH REDO
Part of the \fBredo\fR(1) suite.
.SH CREDITS
The original concept for \fBredo\fR is due to D. J. Bernstein
(\fIhttp://cr.yp.to/redo.html\fR). Avery Pennarun created this implementation
(\fIhttp://github.com/apenwarr/redo\fR), and Rob Bocchino revised it
(\fIhttp://github.com/bocchino/redo\fR).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBredo\fR(1), \fBredo-ifcreate\fR(1), \fBredo-ifchange\fR(1), \fBredo-stamp\fR(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Avery Pennarun (\fIapenwarr@gmail.com\fR)
