.TH REDO-TARGETS 1 2020-03-12 "Redo 0.11-119-g209cead" "User Commands"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
redo-targets - print the list of all known redo targets
.SH SYNOPSIS
redo-targets
.SH DESCRIPTION
redo-targets prints a list of all redo \fItarget\fR files that
still exist.
.PP
Files that no longer exist might not be targets anymore;
you'll have to redo them for them to end up back in this
list. (For example, if you built a file and then removed
the file and its .do file, you wouldn't want it to show up
in this list.)
.PP
If a .do script does not produce an output file (e.g.
all.do, clean.do), it also does not show up in this list.
.PP
The output of redo-targets might be useful in a
semi-automated \fBclean.do\fR target; you could delete all the
known targets, thus forcing them to be rebuilt next time.
.PP
Each filename is on a separate line. The filenames are not
guaranteed to be in any particular order.
.PP
All filenames are printed relative the current directory.
The list is not filtered in any way; it contains \fIall\fR the
target filenames from the entire project. Remember that
the redo database may span more than just your project, so
you might need to filter the list before using it. (A
useful heuristic might be to remove any line starting with
'../' since it often refers to a target you don't care
about.)
.PP
If you want a list of only out-of-date targets, use
\fBredo-ood\fR(1). If you want a list of sources (dependencies
that aren't targets), use \fBredo-sources\fR(1).
.SH REDO
Part of the \fBredo\fR(1) suite.
.SH CREDITS
The original concept for \fBredo\fR is due to D. J. Bernstein
(\fIhttp://cr.yp.to/redo.html\fR). Avery Pennarun created this implementation
(\fIhttp://github.com/apenwarr/redo\fR), and Rob Bocchino revised it
(\fIhttp://github.com/bocchino/redo\fR).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBredo\fR(1), \fBredo-ood\fR(1), \fBredo-sources\fR(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Avery Pennarun (\fIapenwarr@gmail.com\fR)
